---
layout: post
title: Mysql Test
date: 2023-06-08
categories: hasura events algolia search
---

This project illustrates using Hasura with MySQL using a simple e-commerce data model.

# Table of Contents

1.  [What](#orgaf6d7fa)
2.  [Why](#org2ac4326)
3.  [How](#org1604c31)
4.  [Steps](#org8438b4e)


<a id="orgaf6d7fa"></a>

# What

This project illustrates using Hasura with MySQL using a simple e-commerce data model.


<a id="org2ac4326"></a>

# Why

It's useful to have a Proof-Of-Concept (POC) that possesses these features:

1.  Connects Hasura to MySQL via a GraphQL Data Connector agent
2.  Uses Kriti templating to keep database secrets out of the metadata
3.  Has a data model with synthesized data and UUID primary key columns.


<a id="org1604c31"></a>

# How

This project has these components:

-   **[docker-compose.yaml](docker-compose.yaml):** sets up services for `postgres`, `mysql`, `graphql-engine`, and `data-connector-agent`
-   **[metadata.json](metadata.json):** Hasura metadata with the connection information and the tracked tables, views, and relationships
-   **[01<sub>init</sub><sub>model.sql</sub>](initdb.d-mysql/01_init_model.sql):** SQL script to initialize the data model
-   **[02<sub>init</sub><sub>data.sql</sub>](initdb.d-mysql/02_init_data.sql):** SQL script to initialize the data


<a id="org8438b4e"></a>

# Steps

-   Clone this repository.

    git clone https://github.com/dventimihasura/hasura-projects.git

-   Change to the `mysql-test-1` directory.

    cd mysql-test-1

-   Create a .env file with your admin secret, JDBC connection information, and an Enterprise license key.

    HASURA_GRAPHQL_EE_LICENSE_KEY=<your enterprise license key>
    HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET=admin
    MYSQL_URL=jdbc:mysql://mysql:3306/mysql?user=mysql&password=mysql

-   Launch the services with Docker Compose.

    docker compose up -d

-   Use the Hasura Console to import the `metadata.json` file.

